.TH aberd 6 "3 June 1996" "iDIRT 1.82.00" "iDIRT Information Manual"
.SH NAME
aberd \- iDIRT MUD Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B aberd
[
.BI \-p 
port
]
[
.BI \-d 
path
]
[
.BI \-n 
#
]
[
.BI \-fkcvVohH
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B aberd
is the iDIRT MUD daemon that runs the MUD system. It handles
all user logins via an IP port on your system. The MUD daemon
is loaded into memory through a daemonizing technique that 
allows it to attach to an IP port. 

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p port
An alternate port to run the iDIRT daemon on.
.TP
.B \-d path
An alternate path to the data files directory.
.TP
.B \-n #
Maximum numbers of users to allow on the MUD (default 32).
.TP
.B \-f
Run the iDIRT daemon in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-k
Automatically kill any other iDIRT daemons that are running.
.TP
.B \-c
Automatically clear the system logs.
.TP
.B \-v
Display version.
.TP
.B \-V
Display extended version information.
.TP
.B \-o
Automatically open the MUD upon bootup.
.TP
.B \-h
iDIRT daemon usage.
.TP
.B \-H
iDIRT daemon usage with help screen.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR idirt (9)

.SH FILES
.TP
.B idirt/bin/restart
iDIRT daemon restart script.

.SH BUGS
As with any AberMUD style system, this MUD has been known
to seg fault before on various systems. So always remember,
.B gdb
is your friend.

.SH AUTHORS
.I AberMUD IV:
Richard Acott, Alan Cox, Jim Finnis, Brian Preble, Anarchy, 
Rich Salz, and numerous others.
.LP
.I DIRT:
Alf and Nicknack
.LP
.I iDIRT:
Illusion (Shawn Hill)

.SH THANKS TO
Sithel, Moses, Wesly, Joad, and the various other Illusionary Realms
users that made it all worth while to code and to attempt to debug.
Special thanks to the AberMUD IV and DIRT authors for creating such
a great gaming system. 
.LP
And of course, Guile, for all of his great advice: "If it doesn't 
work man, comment it out.."
