.TH iDIRT 6 "3 June 1996" "iDIRT 1.82.00" "iDIRT Information Manual"
.SH NAME
iDIRT - AberMUD/DIRT Style MUD System

.SH DESCRIPTION
iDIRT is an AberMUD/DIRT style MUD system with a complete
combat system and world for players to explore. The MUD is
originally coded to handle 32 players but can easily handle
more if wanted. 
.LP
The iDIRT world is set into a fantasy world that mixes a style 
of knights and dragons with a touch of mystical creatures such 
as elves and dwarves. If this type of world does not suit you,
simply add in your own style of zones and do what you will.
.LP
Please remember that iDIRT can be almost anything that you want
it to be. Anything from a large multi-user gaming system for
players to enjoy, to a large multi-user chat system that will
allow people to get to know each other. The MUD is very versitile
in that respect and will always be. 
.LP
NOTE: The code currently does not support player killing unless
placed into tournament mode, however even this can be changed.

.SH IDEA OF THE GAME
The idea of the game is very simple for players -- gain a set 
amount of points to become a Wizard. Once a player has reached 
Wizardhood many more commands are available for them which wil
be covered later in this document.
.LP
There are a couple of different ways for players to gain points
in this game. They can search for treasure and dump it into one
of the two sacrificial pits, or kill mobiles. Once the player has
reached the required number of points to be an Apprentice Wizard
they must be made a full Wizard by a power.
.LP
However, the game system is not all that easy and fun. There are
deathrooms and the mobiles can kill you. If a player dies in a 
deathroom they simply lose all of their items and can reenter the
game at the starting locations again. If a player is killed by a 
mobile however, they lose a percentage of their score. This makes
reaching Wizardhood a bit more difficult. For dying is easy, staying
alive is the hard part.

.SH Installation
To install the system you must go through a few very simple steps
and hope that the MUD will compile on your machine. The reason that
you get to hope that it will compile is in case iDIRT hasn't been 
ported to your machine and operating system yet.

.SS 1. Changing the Configuration
Now it is time to change a few of the configurable options of iDIRT. The
first file you will be editing is
.I idirt/include/config.h.
This file contains the main config options for iDIRT. Descriptions of
all of the options is provided in the header file.
.LP
Next you may want to look at
.I idirt/include/logconfig.h
to see what you want and do not want to log into the MUD system logs. 
Like the main configuration header file, descriptions of each option
is given inside of the file.

.SS 2. Compiling
You have now reached the fun and mysterious part of installing iDIRT.
Now that you have configured and made the Makefile you get to try to 
compile iDIRT. Enter the
.I idirt/src
directory and run the make utility and see what happens. If this is
the first installation of iDiRT, it will run
.I makedep
to generate the MACHINE.H file and to get dependencies for the source
files. Note that if you move the MUD to another machine you
.B must
remove the
.I idirt/include/MACHINE.H
file. If all goes well, the MUD will compile and place itself and it's
utilities into the
.I idirt/bin
directory. If not, you will get a few errors that you should bring
to Illusion's attention along with your machine and operating system
type so that he can see if he can help you fix the bugs.

.SS 3. Testing the MUD and Creating Your Character
If the MUD compiled nicely and is where it should be you can now load
the MUD and login. Go to the
.I idirt/bin
directory and run the iDIRT daemon, 
.I aberd
, and then telnet to the port that you gave it to connect to in the
.I idirt/include/config.h
file. You can then login and create the character name that you put in
.I idirt/include/config.h.
When you are logged in you will be a Master User. You should then type
.B help
and start to get familiar with the commands. To shutdown the MUD use the
.B crash
command.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR aberd (6)

.SH AUTHORS
.I AberMUD IV:
Richard Acott, Alan Cox, Jim Finnis, Brian Preble, Anarchy, 
Rich Salz, and numerous others.
.LP
.I DIRT:
Alf and Nicknack
.LP
.I iDIRT:
Illusion (Shawn Hill)

.SH THANKS TO
Sithel, Moses, Wesly, Joad, and the various other Illusionary Realms
users that made it all worth while to code and to attempt to debug.
Special thanks to the AberMUD IV and DIRT authors for creating such
a great gaming system. 
.LP
And of course, Guile, for all of his great advice: "If it doesn't 
work man, comment it out.."
